Preparation meeting with Dante 28-04-2022

Summary of our work so far:
We have done a lot of research surrounding EEG's and in-ear EEG's, and also a bit about security. The research on EEG's surrounds 4 parts: comparison normal vs ear EEG, preprocessing of EEG signals, Brain activity measurable by EEG and classification of EEG signals. The safety research was done to give us a better understanding of how and why three factor authentication works.
The papers on comparison we found concluded that in-ear EEG's have a similair SNR, but have a much lower spatial resolution. We therefore focus on (chains of) events in the brain at certain times rather than certain locations. We also feel like we can use normal scalp EEG for testing authentication methods while the dry in-ear EEG is still not fully ready.
Preprocessing on EEG signals has to deal with a lot of noise and a lot of the papers that were found are about that kind of filtering. The most effective way that was found is the wavelet analysis.
By doing research on brain activity we were looking for a type of thought that can easily be induced by the user, but is also detectable for an EEG. Currently there are five methods which we think might be plausible to work for knowledge based authentication. These all vary in user friendlyness and accuracy. Mental tasks are proven to work as a brain computer interface (BCI) so this might be a method to enter a password. The information rate of the current BCI's is 0.19 bit/s, which is quite low. Frequency tagging has been used in psychology studies to test if a subject recognizes a word using EEG measurements. We hope we can apply this technique to make EEG measurements recognize when a person is thinking about this word. Another way to induce a specific brain response is to let a person hear a song and when it is recognized the brain's reaction is different from a person that does not no the song. This can be used by letting users familiarize themselves with a song and than play it to them via earphones. Pseudowords, words that sound like they exist but which have no meaning, elicit a different reaction in the brain than words with meaning. Letting people remember a non-existing word as their password can give meaning to that word and therefore trigger a different reaction than other when it is shown to them, this would therefore require an external stimilus. Using EEG measurements it is also possible to make a very accurate distinction between a few emotions. Remembering an emotional event can cause physiological changes that can be measured and used as a password.
To do something useful with the preprocessed data, we would like to use a machine learning algorithm. There is already a lot of research of this way of classifying EEG signals. We off course need to alter these methods to be more in line with the features of the signals that are important for us.
Finally we have also done a bit of research on safety. This is mostly about three factor authentication. It is important for us to make a clear distinction between knowledge and inherence, because both those factors appear in the brain in our case. For the inherence factor we would like to use a constant check on the EEG, because it has been proven that from long enough measurements a person can be recognized. Knowledge is harder and our goal is that the user has a mental password that can be used whenever the user wants (but also only when the user wants to) to log in. We also used these papers as proof for the added safety value of three factor authentication.

Questions:
- There are readily available methods for preprocessing EEG signals, should we use those or make our own system.
- What do you think about the different ways of authentication based on knowledge?
- What are the practical limitations of testing with an EEG?
- 